Selling Your Home When You Have Pets.
Selling a home with pets is very common,
but may require extra preparation.
Here are some tips we suggest
when selling a home with pets.
For showings, removing pets from the
home is the most recommended option.
This allows the buyer to walk through
the home without distractions and focus
on how the space would feel for them.
Even calm, well-behaved pets can be a
distraction, which may shorten a showing
and take focus off the home itself.
If removing pets isn’t possible,
then they need to be put in a crate.
For the pet’s comfort and safety, using a
breathable cover over the crate can help
reduce stress and discourage buyers from
approaching the crate during showings.
Any crated pet must be placed in the
same location every time, exactly as
noted in the listing instructions.
This information is sent to
the agent prior to a showing
so they know what to expect.
Pets should never be
loose in the backyard.
Buyers expect to walk the entire property,
including outdoor areas, and should be
able to do that safely and comfortably.
If you have pets in cages or tanks,
like birds, fish, reptiles, or
small animals, make sure their
enclosures are clean and odor-free.
Odors are one of the
biggest concerns for buyers.
Professional carpet and furniture
cleaning is highly recommended,
since pet smells often live in
furniture, not just flooring.
Avoid heavy candles or air
fresheners, as buyers may think
something is being covered up.
If you’re unsure about odors, ask someone
outside the home for honest feedback.
Finally, reduce pet clutter.
Store toys, bowls, leashes,
and beds neatly so the home
feels clean and clutter free.
Preparing the home this way helps
keep the focus where it should
be, on the property itself.